KUALA LUMPUR: Pos Malaysia has yet to resume its international mail and parcel deliveries, although other services have been reinstated.
A Pos Malaysia spokesman told the New Straits Times today that the temporary suspension was due to Covid-19 pandemic which had triggered restrictions and closure of borders, suspension of flight services and closure of airports or seaports globally.
"These disruptions are beyond our control and we will commence international services once the situation improves," the spokesman said.
On July 31, Pos Malaysia announced its international mail and parcel, as well as Express Mail Service (EMS) to all international destinations, except Singapore, had been suspended beginning Aug 3 until further notice.
As a temporary alternative, Pos Malaysia suggested its customers to use AsiaXpress, its wholly-owned subsidiary, that could send international mail and parcel to more than 220 countries worldwide.
"This service is available at selected Pos Malaysia post offices and Pos Laju centres."
On why other courier services were able to operate their international services, but not Pos Malaysia, the spokesman said: "AsiaXpress utilises major commercial courier services that operate their own fleet of aircraft or freighters to international destinations, but Pos Malaysia relies on commercial flights for international mail, parcel and EMS." 
Bernama previously quoted Pos Malaysia as saying that it is a Universal Service Obligation (USO) licensee for Malaysia which required it to perform all obligations under the USO, that is to deliver basic, accessible and affordable postal services to everyone in the country, regardless of their location, unlike commercial courier service providers who are not required to do so.
In the same statement, Pos Malaysia had also said the situation differs for commercial courier service providers who are only courier licensees and are not required to perform USO. 
It added that commercial courier companies are also not part of the same postal network as USO licensees, giving them the flexibility to alter delivery routes and charges in the event of a global issue such as Covid-19.
