
 
							 
							     
							 
							



Isuzu Malaysia recently delivered a total of 141 units of their commercial trucks to City-Link Express (M) Sdn Bhd, during an official handover ceremony held at City-Link Express’ ‘Super Hub’ facility in Bandar Saujana Putra, Selangor. The handover comprised of 128 units of the ELF 4-wheeler (NLR77UEE) model, eight units of the ELF 6-wheeler (NPR81UKH) model and five units of the GIGA (GXR) model.
The recent handover is in continuity of the mutual trust and longstanding relationship between both companies, since its first fleet deal made back in 2011. The latest purchase has further strengthen City-Link Express’ existing fleet of vehicles, in line with plans of branch expansions throughout the country, while providing fast delivery and customer satisfaction.
The handover also saw City-Link Express’ first purchase of the Isuzu GIGA Prime Mover Trucks as part of their expansion growth. These container trucks are targeted for long distance deliveries and long haul usages, in addition to its high rigidity chassis design and aerodynamic cabin design. The GIGA truck offers outstanding engine output and torque, ensuring highfuel efficiency, which makes it an ideal choice for businesses seeking cost-effective transportation.
During the ceremony, Koji Nakamura, Chief Executive Officer of Isuzu Malaysia, took the opportunity to express his gratitude and appreciation to City-Link Express for their continuous support for Isuzu Malaysia and its range of durable and economical trucks. He is confident that the Isuzu trucks recently delivered will be a vital force for City-Link Express to achieve their company’s long-term business objectives and overall mission accordingly.
To commemorate the handover, Nakamura presented a symbolic mock key, a special banner and a F-series miniature toy truckto the Founder and Executive Chairman of City-Link Express, Dato’ David Tan. Also in attendance was City-Link Express’ Chief Executive Officer, Ronald Tan, and Sales Manager, Colin Tan. After the ceremony, guests were brought on a tour around the City-Link facility.
Due to both companies’ established partnership, Isuzu Malaysia will carry out training sessions for the driversonproduct knowledge and basic maintenance of the GIGA GXR model. Thesesessionsare expected to provide attendees withvital knowledge and understanding of the key features of the GXR model, while achieving economic and safety driving.
For more details on Isuzu’s range of vehicles, please call 1-300-88-1133 or visit www.isuzu.net.my.
