Subscribe to our Telegram channel for our latest stories and breaking news.

Following recent controversy surrounding J&T Express, a staff member shared that he saw a sharp drop in the number of parcels processed in a single day
Two weeks ago, the courier company landed in hot water following allegations of a pay cut, sparking a strike by employees. Footage of workers violently handling parcels at a warehouse then made its rounds on social media. Recently, a video by TikTok user @wbas_photography, whose real name is Muhammad Afiq Sazali, showed that J&T Express faced a decline in business after the fiasco.In the clip, he noted, "Usually there would be 100 to 150 parcels delivered in a day. After the incident the other day, there are only 20 to 30 items to be delivered."
The original post on TikTok garnered over 1.4 million views and 10,100 comments. The video has also been reposted several times across different platforms.
In an interview with SAYS, Muhammad Afiq said that the situation depicted in the video is the reality faced by him and fellow J&T delivery drivers after netizens called for a boycott of the company
The 28-year-old from Penang explained, "Before this, I would send out at least 100 parcels a day. After the incident, it really affected my work. I made the video just to share the situation on TikTok. I never intended for it to go viral.""However, the video was recorded last week. Since then, business has been picking up slowly, but it is still is not as good as it used to be before. Right after the incident, I would only send out about 20 parcels a day. But this week, it has gone up to about 70 to 80 a day."Muhammad Afiq's short video showed him opening the doors of a J&T Express delivery lorry only to reveal a small number of parcels inside. Meanwhile, during our interview, he added that fellow colleagues are predicting things will get better in time, especially due to the fact that platforms like Shopee and Lazada are scheduling promotions in March.
"It's just a little upsetting that the incident has affected all of us, including those who are sincere in their work," he said
"However, I understand that the issue is very serious and could impact our customers' views on us as a company."When asked about the reactions he got from his video, Muhammad Afiq explained that he received mixed comments."Some people are empathetic and said they will continue to support J&T, but others are still upset about the situation.""For me, since I also work part-time as a wedding photographer, I am not completely dependent on my job as a delivery driver. But some of my friends who work full-time are actually affected. Recently it's been tough, a few staff members have also resigned due to many reasons," he said.
Watch his full video here:
Kembalilah kepada kami ..#jntexpress #abangjnt #fyp #foryoupage
The company has denied the claims and said that it never reduced its workers' salaries:
It was said that J&T Express had reduced employee commissions from RM1 per parcel to RM0.30.
Meanwhile, the Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission (MCMC) said that courier companies that fail to protect the rights of consumers can be slapped with both fine and jail:
The regulatory body also said that courier companies that fail to protect the rights of consumers can be fined up to ...
An investigation by the Ministry of Human Resources found that the J&T issue was triggered by extra workload and dissatisfaction over the changes in the commission payment structure:
The Ministry of Human Resources has urged J&T Express to hold discussions with its workers before making any changes ...
