






            KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA - Media OutReach - 9 December 2020 - In
Malaysia, DHL eCommerce Solutions, a division of Deutsche Post DHL Group (DPDHL
Group), has recorded triple digit revenue growth in the third quarter,
corroborating the tremendous growth of e-commerce in the region. Equally, the
number of parcels that DHL eCommerce Solutions has been processing monthly in Malaysia
has doubled to approximately 90,000 pieces per day from a year ago and is set
to double again to approximately 200,000 pieces per day once the central hub
facility in Puchong is automated in the first quarter of 2021. 




             

            "Malaysia's
e-commerce sector is expected to grow at 24.7%
in 2020 and will reach US$12.6 billion by 2024. This growth will only
accelerate post-pandemic as businesses, small and large, move and scale online,
and online shopping becomes increasingly second-nature to consumers," said
Kiattichai Pitpreecha, CEO of DHL eCommerce Solutions Southeast Asia. "We're bolstering
our network of depots across the country and investing in automation and
digitalization to increase capacity, enhance efficiency and provide a seamless
customer experience." 

             

            DHL
eCommerce Solutions currently has 45 depots across Malaysia, which serve as
consolidation and distribution centers for the surrounding community. The
company added five new depots in 2020 and will be opening another 12 depots
over the next six months. To strengthen its last-mile services in Malaysia, DHL
eCommerce Solutions has also grown its retail service points to over 450 and
will soon be introducing a retail app for consumers to book, track and find
shipments, and deploying a chat-bot to facilitate inquiries.

             

            Anil
Gautam, Managing Director of DHL eCommerce Solutions Malaysia added, "To deal
with the changing market dynamics and keep pace with the expansion, we are
actively recruiting with plans to increase our workforce by more than 60% by
end 2021. We see massive opportunities in the Klang Valley region but are
equally witnessing heightened activities in East Malaysia as online spending
increases. I'm confident that these investments into our people, technology and
network will position us well for the booming Internet economy that is driven
by a fast-growing, engaged, young and mobile-first wave of consumers."

             

            DHL
eCommerce Solutions has also tailored its nationwide network to provide sellers
and consumers with convenient pick-up and drop-off locations across Malaysia.
Catering specifically to the C2C and B2C e-commerce market where cash
capabilities and secure delivery are key, it has also introduced value-added
products such as cash on delivery with daily remittance, multi-piece deliveries
and One-Time-Password based Secure Delivery services. 

             




DHL is the
leading global brand in the logistics industry. Our DHL divisions offer an
unrivalled portfolio of logistics services ranging from national and
international parcel delivery, e-commerce shipping and fulfillment solutions,
international express, road, air and ocean transport to industrial supply chain
management. With about 380,000 employees in more than 220 countries and
territories worldwide, DHL connects people and businesses securely and
reliably, enabling global sustainable trade flows. With specialized solutions
for growth markets and industries including technology, life sciences and
healthcare, engineering, manufacturing & energy, auto-mobility and retail,
DHL is decisively positioned as "The logistics company for the world".



            DHL is part of Deutsche Post DHL Group. The Group generated revenues of
more than 63 billion euros in 2019. With sustainable business practices and a
commitment to society and the environment, the Group makes a positive
contribution to the world. Deutsche Post DHL Group aims to achieve
zero-emissions logistics by 2050.

